So our algorithm or the steps will be
as follows:-
1. Capture and store the
background frame. [ This will be
done for some seconds ]
2. Detect the red colored cloth
using color detection and
segmentation algorithm.
3. Segment out the red colored
cloth by generating a mask. [ used
in code ]
4. Generate the final augmented
output to create a magical effect. [
video.mp4 ]





A mask is a binary image consisting of zero- and non-zero values. 
If a mask is applied to another binary or to a grayscale image of 
the same size, all pixels which are zero in the mask are set to 
zero in the output image.



The inRange() function returns an array consisting of elements equal 
to 0 if the elements of the source array lie between the elements of 
the two arrays representing the upper bounds and the lower bounds.


resultarray = inRange(sourcearray, upperboundarray, lowerboundarray)


(1) Fourcc:
FourCC is a 4-byte code used to specify the video codec. List of codes 
can be obtained at Video Codecs by FourCC. The codecs for Windows is 
DIVX and for OSX is avc1, h263. FourCC code is passed as cv2

(2) Cv2.morphologyEX()
Dilate : The cv2. dilate() is an OpenCV function in Python that applies 
a morphological filter to images. The cv2. dilate() method takes two 
inputs, of which one is our input image; the second is called the 
structuring element or kernel, which decides the nature of the operation.

(3) AddWeighted
addWeighted is a function that helps in alpha blending of the image. Alpha 
blending helps in overlaying a foreground image with a transparent look while 
it has a background image over this one. The transparency is usually the fourth 
channel of any image. This transparency mask is known as an alpha mask. The 
foreground image is on the top left, while the gray scale is the alpha mask 
which is on the top right.
Dilation adds pixels to the boundaries of objects in an image, while erosion 
removes pixels on object boundaries. The number of pixels added or removed 
from the objects in an image depends on the size and shape of the structuring 
element used to process the image.

waitkey() function of Python OpenCV allows users to display a window for 
given milliseconds or until any key is pressed.


Dilation adds pixels to the boundaries of objects in an image, while erosion 
removes pixels on object boundaries.


dtype dtype('uint8') dtype objects also contain information about the 
type, such as its bit-width and its byte-order. The data type can also be 
used indirectly to query properties of the type, such as whether it is an 
integer: >>> d = np

(5) np.ones()
The numpy.ones() function returns a new array of given shape and type, with ones.

import numpy as geek
 
b = geek.ones(2, dtype = int)
print("Matrix b : \n", b)
 
a = geek.ones([2, 2], dtype = int)
print("\nMatrix a : \n", a)
 

Image= alpha * image1 + beta * image2 + y
